A spy is like a mock, but
you can spy on just one
method of an object, right?
It's basically the same idea otherwise, so
I've got that arithmetic on I can also,
let's do it actually with this one.
So I could say,
let's say we'll deal with log,
and we'll say vi.spyOn(the console object.
And why don't you look at its
log method for me, right?
Cool, and then we could do stuff like
either that log that we saw before.
And we could say log,
I didn't realize that if I call it log and
I try to use console log,
it's log log, but life's hard.
1, 2, and 3, you can see that with a spy,
it still did its thing,
it's still logged to the console.
If you don't want that to happen,
you could do something
like .mockImplementation.
You can also fake a promise returning.
There's lots of useful cases where
you would do all these things.
And they're very specific and you'll know
it when you see it, but again, treat it.
So you can either mock
the return value just once and
then put it back the way it was.
You can just mock the return value,
you can change with this,
you can do all sorts of
things that you need to do.
Keep in mind,
the more clever that you get,
the more, what are you doing,
[LAUGH] right?
You can do mockImplementation.
And where I could make it a no-op,
and then it won't log to the console.
This could also be useful if you have
a library that has a console log in it,
right?
For that test, you could get it
to be quiet for a moment, right?
There are times, there's very specific
times in places where it's like,
I need this thing that,
especially if it's a third party library,
you might choose to do something, right?
There are lots of cases,
I'll show you how to do this for
a third party library as well,
but this will, in fact, work.
And so
now I could also look at now like expect.
It gives the same API as a mock.
Expect(console.log), which is
not in my test, as you notice.
My log function is, it calls
console.log under the hood, right?
And this could be local storage.set item,
here's a time where you're allowed
to use a mock or a spy, ready?
Geolocation, right?
Time also, but that's a separate topic.
The browser APIs that
you don't fully control,
and you wanna be if low battery
don't run this worker, right?
In this zone, I wanna see if
my distance algorithm works.
I would argue it should be able to take
the actual latitude, longitude, and
return that, that's what you should test,
but sometimes you don't control the code.
This whole, of course, is what you came to
a code base that you didn't make the mess,
you have to clean it up.
There are things that you can do
that you can use strategically.
So expect(console.log) toHave, BeenCalled.
Yeah, we didn't call console.log in this
file, and we also made it be quiet and
not do its thing, but we were able to
track that it was called like at all.
And BeenCalledWith, Right, and so
you can get some introspection.
I am okay with you using it to test your
code was called the way you thought.
If you start mocking out everything,
we're gonna have words, right?
And so it is useful tool, it exists.
The other thing that I will show
you is if you need to do it for
a third party library.
Maybe you have this very high-level
function that you use throughout
your application, even one that I have
in my code base, and we can maybe
take a look at it later, is I have one,
and this is a pattern I really like.
And so now we go less from the test and
more from a thing that I think you
should just do when your code base,
is I don't use fetch in my code base,
I use this request from API.
Do you know what it does under the hood?
It calls fetch, right?
But I might have that with this string
to be typed to only allow my known
API endpoints so that if I mistype
something, TypeScript tells me, right?
Or maybe if it catches,
it sends something to century,
which is an error logging tool,
or to my logs.
And if it's successful, it says submit
a segment, which is user tracking or
whatever, right?
They're always things that you do over and
over and over and over again,
don't type that and have this request
from API in place and just use that.
And we have a certain kind of pagination
where we don't know the number of pages,
you just get the token for
the next page, right?
And I only get for some API's 50, so
if I need 100, I can say get 100, and
we'll request some API,
it will keep iterating down to the next
page token until I get the note.
Very specific business logic for
the thing that I work on with
the APIs that I have, right?
It will do things, and so
I might want that to use fetch or
something along those lines of Axios, and
that is a case where they might be
purposely tightly coupled, right?
So you can have something like this, and
that's a point where you might choose to
do something like this, where you can
verify that did fetch get called are the
things that should have gotten called.
Cuz if someone breaks that,
or yeah, in this case,
I do wanna put this response
in there real quickly.
But you can do some really
interesting things but-
>> Where does requestFromApi come from?
>> This is a fake function I just made.
>> Okay.
>> I would say you could call it request,
you could even call it fetch if you want
it and just import it in the same way.
You only made that render function that
kinda uses testing libraries render but
different.
That's basically I'm saying hey,
fetch, but
with some of the nuances of my
specific use case, please, right?
And that might be a case where,
then you wanna make sure fetch
got called right, right?
And maybe don't wanna do
then also send the fetch,
now you can start to get my permission,
right?
But if you find yourself mocking stubbing,
I said this earlier in the course,
if find yourself mocking and
stubbing code you control, fix your code.
Do it for now, yeah,
fine, but fix it, right?
It's mostly for things you don't fully
control to make sure that got called
the way that you think it does.